Welcome back to Movie Recaps.
Today I will show you a mystery, drama film
from 2015, titled Circle.
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care.
A soft light comes on revealing people standing
in a circle, unconscious.
Suddenly, a young woman wakes up.
She calls out, but no one answers.
She tries to move in front of herself, but
a buzzer rings.
She sees that she's standing on a red circle.
She tries to move behind, but the buzzer rings
again.
She tries to touch the soldier next to her,
but the buzzer rings for that too.
There's a circle glowing on her hand.
A man from the other side of the room tells
her to stop moving.
He says "they" can see us.
She asks questions he can only guess the answers
too.
Another woman wakes up, panicked.
He tries to calm her, but she moves and a
beam of electricity shooting from the middle
of the circle of people kills her.
Suddenly, the lights come on and everyone
wakes, one man dies instantly.
The first man tells everyone to stop moving,
while a cop is looking for his gun.
He tells everyone to stand still and not to
touch anyone.
A beeping sound can be heard and one of the
men that was killed gets dragged away, as
his hand glows as well.
The beeping continues and the electrical charge
starts building, it kills the first man before
he can speak again.
Everyone is panicking now, but as they are
calming down the guy in the hat figures out
that he's controlling the lights on the floor.
The light stops in front of a woman and the
electricity zaps her.
As the others ask what's going on, the guy
in the hat tells them to see how they can
change the lights on the floor.
Everyone tries per his instruction and they
realize they can only see the light they are
controlling.
The hat guy says that they are the ones that
choose who dies.
The beeping starts and another person gets
zapped.
The beeping starts again as the pregnant woman
looks around trying to figure out what is
happening.
The electricity zaps again and she says that
they are actually voting.
She says that they're killing off whomever
gets the most votes and that they choose by
closing their hands.
Someone suggests they all vote for the dead
one and they all agree, as the beeping is
under way.
When it stops, someone gets zapped regardless.
The next time it beeps, they all try not voting.
Suddenly all of the pointer lights come on
and someone still gets zapped.
The guy in the blue hoodie tells everyone
to be quiet and suggests they develop a strategy,
so they are able to figure out their situation
and stop what's happening to them.
His suggestion - to kill the older people
first.
Hat guy agrees, but not everyone else.
Blue hoodie says they should start with the
first one on his right and kill them off clockwise.
Pregnant lady disagrees, but no one has a
better idea.
The beeping continues and the first old man
begs, but the zapper gets him.
Since the majority agrees with blue hoodie's
strategy, they try to figure out what's happening
to them.
They ask the soldier, thinking he might know
what it is, like an alien invasion or something
similar, but he's just as confused as the
rest of them.
A man in the back starts speaking about what
he remembers from before he woke up there.
He is remembering being stuck in a traffic
jam, then running before everything went dark.
A few others say they remember the same thing.
The beeping starts again and they vote, for
the second old person.
The guy remembers being pulled up in a ship.
He also remembers a red room with bodies piled
up, which he now thinks weren't dead, but
actually drugged.
They all vote for the third old person, as
they continue their conversation.
The fourth old person says he also remembers
something, maybe the aliens - how they spoke
and what they looked like.
Some of the people don't believe him, thinking
he's lying to save himself.
But he gets zapped.
Hat guy asks who'll be the next in line to
get zapped.
They point to the hat lady, asking her how
old she is.
The fact that she's only 52, changes the minds
of the others.
She tells them that she had cancer, but she
beat it.
Blue hoodie thinks that since she is more
likely to die than the rest of them, she should
be next.
A doctor interjects, saying that's not true.
To that blue hoodie says that since she's
over fifty she needs to go, but some of the
others disagree wondering how low the age
limit would get eventually.
Blue hoodie tries to convince them of his
strategy to no avail.
They kill him.
Cancer lady suggests that they should start
figuring out why they were chosen for the
circle.
Though some of the others think that it was
a random scenario.
She says that they should try to learn more
about each other.
Beth goes first and tells the others about
herself.
As she speaks the beeping starts again and
she gets zapped.
After that, most of the people think that
they should not share their names and they're
apprehensive about sharing anything else too.
Craig goes next regardless, saying that the
woman on his left is his wife.
Someone asks who else knows each other and
a man from the back speaks up, saying he knows
the doctor.
The two of them don't want to share how they
know each other though.
Craig continues, begging the people not to
kill his wife.
The beeping continues and another zap happens.
Next they asks the Hispanic man to speak,
but he doesn't understand English.
The woman behind him says she'll translate.
She asks him about his family and he says
that he has 3 daughters down in Mexico.
Red tie man starts the conversation about
illegal immigrants, but the man in the flannel
shirt asks him if he would need a green card
to get abducted by aliens.
They tell the translator to ask him if he
was in the US legally and he says no.
The beeping continues, but it zaps a young
girl in the front row, to the surprise of
some.
The cop recognizes a guy from the front row
- Raul, because he beat up his own girlfriend.
Cancer lady asks if he's sure it was him.
The exchange between the cop and Raul becomes
more about profiling and prejudice, than about
what he could've possibly done for the cop
to know him.
When they start asking if he did beat up his
girlfriend, he says that she got what she
deserved.
Next round, Raul gets zapped.
After that, the blonde from the front row
says that maybe they're supposed to figure
out who's good and who's bad.
She says there must be a reason why they're
there, but the man next to her doesn't agree,
saying that maybe the whole point is for them
to kill each other while the aliens watch.
However, the blonde guy behind her interprets
her question as figuring out who deserves
to live.
So they wonder what they should base it on,
while the beeping continues.
It zaps the Muslim woman from the front row.
The African American man asks the racial question
and stirs the conversation.
The white people, at first, say that in that
room nothing is fair and the other African
Americans tell him not to continue with the
conversation, because he will only make himself
a target.
Hat guy agrees with them.
The question reveals how people actually feel
about race.
The cop is the next one to speak, revealing
his racism and prejudice.
The beeper starts, the cop dies.
The soldier thinks that they shouldn't talk
about their opinions and prejudices, but the
African American man disagrees, saying everything
should be on the table.
The soldier and the translator say that they
shouldn't turn on each other and instead try
to figure out what is happening to them.
The next time they vote, they try voting for
themselves, but it doesn't work.
So they try voting for the person next to
them.
Someone still gets zapped, because somebody
made a mistake.
They try the same thing again and the pregnant
woman helps the kid next to her.
Suddenly, the pregnant girl and a man are
chosen, so everyone votes again.
The man gets zapped.
The guy from the back says he voted for the
man, because he saw him voting for the pregnant
girl.
He says that the way the game was designed,
in the end it will get down to the pregnant
girl or the kid.
To that the blonde guy from the second row
replies that if they get rid of them, everyone
will have a better chance.
The guy in the flannel shirt says that it
should be one of them to walk out, but red
tie disagrees.
Cancer lady says that the pregnant girl counts
as two people.
The voting begins and it's another tie, between
an older woman and the kid.
They vote for the lady.
The guy from the back and the soldier think
that they should protect the two of them,
but the man with the glasses wants to know
what they're like first.
He asks the kid questions when the voting
begins and it's another tie, between the pregnant
girl and the kid.
The guy standing behind them says to kill
them both, but he gets zapped instead.
Craig suggests they should ask for volunteers.
They go around the circle, but no one steps
up, until a teenager says he'll volunteer.
They argue if they should ask him why he would
do it.
Eventually he does answer, saying he doesn't
want to kill anyone.
Flannel shirt says that he's a kid and that
it's not fair to let him do it.
Red tie and glasses man disagree, so hey ask
if he's sure.
An older gentleman from the back volunteers
in his stead and when the beeping starts,
he walks off from his circle.
Red tie and glasses still insist they should
ask for volunteers, but they're not willing
to do it themselves.
Flannel guy thinks that everyone except the
pregnant girl should step forward.
Glasses asks the teenager if he still wants
to do it and after the beeping, he steps out
and dies.
Next, everyone expects the soldier to volunteer.
But he doesn't want to, because he thinks
he's sacrificed enough in his life.
He wants to get back to his family and meet
his kid.
Time is running out and they wait for a volunteer.
A woman from the back does it, because she's
lost her son.
The Deacon tells her that she will see him
again.
She says goodbye and walks out of her circle.
The man in the black suit antagonizes him,
when they find out he's a deacon.
They finally reach the religion question.
The man in the black suit, tells them that
they have only one god now and it's the zapper.
He gets mad and tries to find the other atheists
in the circle.
The beeping starts and he thinks they'll all
choose him.
Both him and another girl are chosen.
She gets zapped.
He continues to antagonize everyone, by asking
the blond next to him if she's a porn star.
She says no, but he keeps pushing her and
offending her.
The next voting round comes up and he dies.
While the blond is crying, glasses man says
that they should take into account if some
of them have children.
Craig says that him and his wife have a daughter.
Glasses thinks that the ones that don't have
children should sacrifice themselves.
Red tie man asks a woman from the back if
she has any kids or a husband, but she throws
the question back at him.
While he's answering another girl gets zapped.
Then the woman tells them about her life and
they find out that she's gay.
Red tie is clearly a homophobe and the others
take offense to what he's saying, so in the
next voting round, he dies.
Blond guy asks what happens at the end when
only two are left.
Would they tie?
So the guy in the back suggests that one of
the two wouldn't vote and would effectively
be sacrificing them self.
Flannel guy says that he would sacrifice himself
and cancer lady implies that they should pick
someone they would trust to make the right
decision.
The translator says that no one can be trusted.
Blond guy says that they all should decide.
The blond woman asks what happens if it comes
down to the two of them?
The doctor says they could decide for them.
The voting is underway and her and the man
that knows her are tied.
They die together.
The blond guy is convinced that they should
decide who out of the two of them should die,
but the soldier thinks he's just manipulating
everybody to get rid of both the pregnant
girl and the kid.
Craig asks who would they choose out of the
two, then glasses asks the pregnant girl what
she does for work.
The others don't think it's a fair question,
as he continues explaining that it's important
to know who contributes more to society out
of them.
The translator says that what's important
is that she's pregnant.
Glasses antagonizes the pregnant girl, when
another voting round starts and kills hat
guy.
Flannel asks glasses what he does and he answers
that he's a banker and a contributing member
to society.
Glasses antagonizes all of them, but the translator
gets zapped.
Most of the people think that the Hispanic
man should be next, when the man from the
back says that one side killed the translator
because she would never vote for the kid or
the pregnant girl.
Now that the question of "sides" is raised
they start counting each other to see which
one stands where.
Who will be the ones to vote for the girls
and who won't?
The vote begins and the kid and the Hispanic
man tie.
He sees what's happening and he sacrifices
himself for the girl.
Glasses antagonizes the soldier and he aligns
with the side that wants to kill the two girls.
Him and the blond guy get the couple and the
African American man on their side.
The voting starts.
The kid is in a tie again, but this time with
glasses.
The African American man and the blond man
say that they should let hem both die.
But only glasses dies, because the wife changes
her vote.
They find out it was her, but she says that
she didn't change it, she just didn't vote.
Flannel guy says that they all know that they
will die and that it's better to go out with
some dignity.
Craig thinks that he's implying that the kid
should die and the pregnant girl should remain
last.
The blond guy wants to get the blond woman
on his side, but when he can't he says that
they should vote for the flannel guy so that
they could even things out and have more time
to talk about everything.
They vote for the flannel guy.
Next, they try to find the majority for each
group, so the soldier suggests they vote for
the wife, to test the husband.
At the last second Craig switches his vote
and the soldier says that they all vote for
the African American man.
After he dies, the blond guy gets angry at
Craig and says that they're probably not even
married, trying to turn everyone else against
them.
They all start asking them questions, but
the wife caves when one of the women asks
for his name.
She doesn't even remember when he said it
before.
Craig caves and says it was her idea, but
they still kill him.
The fake wife tells them that she didn't lie
about her kid.
The blond guy keeps reminding everyone that
they are all killers, but he promises the
wife that if she joins his side, he will keep
her alive.
He asks the older man what side he's on, but
the man doesn't speak.
Then he asks the woman next to him to join
him by playing on her feelings about her family.
The voting begins and ends with a five way
tie between the blond guy, the soldier, cancer
lady, blond woman and the gay woman.
Only the blond guy remains after the revote.
The Deacon is crying and the blond guy continues
with his strategy, then asks the pregnant
woman for her vote.
She says no.
The guy in the back stays on his position
about the strategy.
The Deacon apologizes to the pregnant girl
and steps off.
The guy in the back and the blond guy realize
that they would need to change strategies,
so the blond guy says to trade with him for
one of the girls and he'll give him the fake
wife.
The voting begins and they all vote except
for the older man.
The wife dies.
The guy from the back says that the older
man never voted during the whole ordeal and
he made it all the way to where they are.
The guy in the back and the blond guy argue
about him, with the first one making the other
one think they will all vote for the older
man.
But, him and the pregnant girl have an understanding
about who they will be voting for.
The zapper kills the blond guy.
Only four of them remain.
This time they will all vote for the older
man, because they don't have another choice.
He dies.
The guy is left with the two girls and they
talk about the reason why all of it is happening.
He says that maybe the aliens are conducting
an experiment to see what humans are like
and what matters to them.
The pregnant girl asks why they would do that
by making them kill each other, so the guy
answers that by choosing who dies they can
see the way people judge each other and how
they think.
Next, he tell the two girls that the two of
them would have to decide which one of them
dies, he can't make that decision for them.
The kid cries, because she's made her decision.
She'll go, for the sake of the baby.
He tells her that they'll go together, but
at the last minute when the kid steps out
of her circle, he votes for the pregnant girl.
Both the girl and the pregnant woman fall
over, but nothing happens, he's still trapped
in the room.
Another vote begins, he curses the aliens
thinking that they'll kill him regardless
and he doesn't vote.
When the beeping stops, he sees that he's
tied with the baby and has to choose between
the baby and himself.
He chooses the baby to die.
He wakes up outside looking up at a spaceship.
When he stands up, he sees that there are
more than one of them.
He played everyone in the room to get to the
last round of the voting circle, knowing what
he would do if he got there.
He saved himself.